PID control is one of the most amazing techniques in all of robotics.
I taught it many times at Stanford,
and for every student there was a before and
after knowing about it, which was transformational.
Let me explain PID in an example.
Suppose you have a hovering drone,
and just for the example,
I'm going to restrict myself to one dimension,
which is the vertical dimension, the z dimension.
Suppose it's hovering right here,
and your desire is to make it hover up here. What would you do?
Well, you could say there's a difference between
your current z value and the desired z value.
So let's add thrust maybe in proportion to that difference.
So drone will come up and accelerate.
As it hits your target level,
it will unfortunately overshoot,
and the reason why it overshoot is it has inertia,
it can't just stop on the spot.
Now your controller that you're [inaudible] when I say you're too high,
the error is just reversed.
So let's reduce thrust,
and what you'll find is that your drone ends up oscillating.
That's not good. What I just described is called a P controller,
and P stands for proportional.
PID stands for proportional, integration, and differentiation.
So you're going to add additional terms to avoid the oscillation effect,
in PID controller that can safely hover the drone at exactly the right level.
PID control.